
IBM Data Science Capstone Final Project Week-1

Find the most suitable location to open a new North or South Indian restaurant in New York, America


Introduction:
I'm Vivek Kumar working as a Software Engineer in Capgemini and have passionate about to become a master data science. Hence we have started pursuing our carrier toward data science. Lets come to the point:-

For this project, I am assuming a hypothetical scenario of a concept Indian entrepreneur who wants to explore opening a reliable North & South Indian restaurant in New York, America. The idea behind this project is that there may not be enough Indian restaurants in New York and it might present a great opportunity for this entrepreneur who is based in New York. The entrepreneur wants to open the restaurant near other Indian restaurants because people who like Indian food may tend to like North or south Indian food. Finding the location to open the restaurant is the most important and crucial decision for the entrepreneur and this project is all about helping him find the optimal location.


Business Problem:-
The objective of this project is to find the most suitable location for the entrepreneur to open a new South Indian restaurant in Toronto, Canada. By using Data analysis, and machine learning algorithms like clustering, this project aims to provide solutions to answer to the business problem: In Toronto, if an entrepreneur wants to open a new North & South Indian restaurant, where should he consider the appropriate place or location?


Target Audience:-
The entrepreneur who wants to find the location to open a reliable South Indian Restaurant.

Data:-
To solve the problem, we need the following data:
List of Neighborhoods in New York, America.
Latitude and Longitude of this Neighborhood.
Venue data related to Indian restaurants. This will help us find the neighborhoods that are most suitable to open a North & South Indian restaurant.

Extracting the data:-
1.Scrapping of New York  Neighborhood data via  https://cocl.us/new_york_dataset
2.Getting the latitude and Longitude of this neighborhood using the Geocoder package.
3.The next task is essentially transforming this data of nested Python dictionaries into a pandas dataframe. And creating an empty dataframe.Then loop through the data and fill the dataframe one row at a time. Use geopy library to get the latitude and longitude values of New York City.

4.Using Foursquare API to get the venues related to this neighborhood





Methodology:-

First, I need to get the list of neighborhoods in New York, America. This is possible by extracting the list of neighborhoods from Wikipedia page(https://geo.nyu.edu/catalog/nyu_2451_34572) and (“ https://cocl.us/new_york_dataset ”). I did the web scraping by utilizing the pandas HTML table scraping method as it is easier and more convenient to pull tabular data directly from a web page into a data frame. However, it is only a list of neighborhood names and postal codes. I will need to get their coordinates to utilize Foursquare to pull the list of venues near these neighborhoods. To get the coordinates,  I can use the Geocoder. After gathering all these coordinates, I visualized the map of New York using the Folium package to verify whether these are correct coordinates. Next, I use Foursquare API to pull the list of top 100 venues within 500 meters radius. I have created a Foursquare developer account earlier in order to obtain an account ID and API key to pull the data. From Foursquare, I am able to pull the names, categories, latitude, and longitude of the venues. With this data, I can also check how many unique categories that I can get from these venues. Then, I analyze each neighborhood by grouping the rows by neighborhood and taking the mean on the frequency of occurrence of each venue category. This is to prepare clustering to be done later. Here, I made a justification to specifically look for “Indian restaurants” because the number of results for “North & South Indian Restaurants” was less. Lastly, I performed the clustering method by using k-means clustering. K-means clustering algorithm identifies k number of centroids, and then allocates every data point to the nearest cluster while keeping the centroids as small as possible. It is one of the simplest and popular unsupervised machine learning algorithms and it is highly suited for this project as well. I have clustered the neighborhoods in Toronto into 5 clusters based on their frequency of occurrence for “Indian food”. Based on the results (the concentration of clusters), I can able to recommend the ideal location to open the restaurant.



